422 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Austin (1932, p. 143) writes that on the Labrador coast the 

 closely related Atlantic Puffin "feeds entirely on fish, which it pursues 

 'flying' under water with its wings." He describes the puffin as 

 being one of the cleverest fishermen among the alcids and maintains 

 that it is able to catch and hold three fish at once in its bill. Six 

 stomachs of this species (Fratercula arctica arctica) examined in the 

 laboratory of the Biological Survey indicate that soft-bodied crus- 

 tacea enter commonly into the bill of fare. Without doubt, the 

 food of these two races is similar. 



Otocoris alpestris alpestris (Linnaeus). NORTHERN HORNED 

 LARK. 



The three horned larks taken July 8 at Indian Harbor, Labrador, 

 where the bird was a common nesting species, are of interest in that 

 they show an unusually large proportion of animal matter in their 

 food. One bird had consumed no fewer than 22 species of animal 

 and plant life, while the others had each taken 12 kinds. Adult and 

 larval Lepidoptera were consumed in numbers by each bird and 

 averaged more than a fourth (27.33 per cent) of the entire amount 

 consumed. These included the genus Agrotis sp. and undetermined 

 Geometridae and Noctuidae. Large ants (Camponotus sp.) were 

 next in the order of importance of the animal foods, averaging 7 

 per cent of the total. Other hymenopterous material, including 

 ichneumon wasps, added another 5.67 per cent. A number of dip- 

 terous forms were next in order with 4.33 per cent, followed by spiders 

 with 3.33 per cent. Leaf-hoppers, aphids, and other true bugs 

 supplied 2.67 per cent, while mollusks, mostly a small Mytilus edulis, 

 made up the remaining 1.67 per cent animal food, making an aggre- 

 gate of 52 per cent. 



Of the 48 per cent vegetable material, 31.67 per cent consisted of 

 fruits and seeds of the bog bilberry (Vaccinium uliginosum), while 

 the remaining consisted of cyperaceous seeds and undetermined 

 vegetable debris. 



Corvus corax principalis Ridgway. NORTHERN RAVEN. 



A Northern Raven was reported at Cape Tattershall, Liverpool 

 coast, by the photographer of the expedition. At Angmagsalik, 

 Hanson collected a specimen without making food habit studies. 

 Stomach examinations of birds taken on previous Bartlett expedi- 

 tions (Cottam, 1936, p. 176) show that, like many other Corvidae, 

 the raven is both predacious and omnivorous in its feeding habits. 



