1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 411 



out its range the bird seems to have much the same feeding prefer- 

 ences. The stomach obtained on the 1936 expedition seems typical 

 of many others that have been examined from more southern lands. 

 Following is a summary of its food content: fragments of six or more 

 sculpins (Cottidae), and undetermined bone fragments, including 44 

 otoliths (probably Cottidae), 6 per cent; fragments of many mysids 

 (Mysis relicta), 83 per cent; fragments of undetermined soft-bodied 

 Crustacea, 10 per cent; fragments of undetermined bivalve, 1 per cent. 

 Feather fragments from the bird's own body were also noted. 



Somateria mollissima subsp. 1 NORTHERN (?) EIDER. 



Less is known of the food tendencies of the Northern Eider than 

 of perhaps any other native North American duck. It is, therefore, 

 gratifying to add a little to the limited data already extant. Judging 

 by other reports on the birds of east Greenland, eiders appeared to 

 be unusually scarce in 1936. Besides those collected, a flock of five 

 noted on the Liverpool coast were the only representatives of the 

 species encountered during the entire voyage. The stomachs 

 examined support the conclusion previously reached that the North- 

 ern Eider has more piscatorial tendencies than most of the other 

 Anatidae, except the Merginae. The stomachs of an adult and a 

 downy young here discussed were collected in North Fjord, Andree 

 Land, on August 1, and showed a higher fish content than those 

 obtained on the previous Bartlett expeditions (Cottam, 1936, p. 168). 



The adult bird had consumed 17 sculpins (Cottidae), mostly 

 Myoxocephalus sp., which amounted to 74 per cent of the meal. The 

 northern astarte (Astarte sp.) was next in order of importance, with 

 23 per cent. A fragment of a gastropod added but a trace to the 

 molluscan diet. Soft-bodied Crustacea in the form of both amphi- 

 pods and schizopods supplied the remaining 3 per cent. The downy 

 young had made 92 per cent of its meal of fish, most of which were 

 identified as Cottidae. Fragments of Fucus sp. and undetermined 

 plant fiber supplied the remaining 5 and 3 per cent, respectively. 



Lagopus mutus captus 2 Peters. GREENLAND ROCK PTARMIGAN. 



Alimentary material was obtained from seven ptarmigan of two 



subspecies, the one under discussion and the following variety. One 



1 The A. 0. U. Checklist does not list typical mollissima from North America 

 and includes southern Greenland in the range of borealis. Peters (1931, p. 179) 

 restricts borealis to west Greenland and includes east Greenland doubtfully in 

 the range of mollissima. For the present we use the name mollisrima. 



2 For proper nomenclature and distribution of Greenland Rock Ptarmigan see 

 Peters, 1934, p. 35, and Salomonsen, 1926, p. 33. 



