410 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Anser brachyrhynchus Baillon. PINK-FOOTED GOOSE. 



The Pink-footed Goose is a rather common resident in Greenland 

 (L0ppenthin, 1932, pp. 33-38, 120), at least in the northeast part. 

 On the 1936 expedition, the junior author collected an adult male in 

 full eclipse plumage at Musk-ox Fjord, North Greenland, on July 31. 

 Another specimen not previously recorded was obtained by Captain 

 Bartlett at Clavering Island, east-central Greenland, on August 6, 

 1931. 



Both these birds had well-filled stomachs and since they are the 

 only ones of this species in the files of the Biological Survey dealing 

 with stomach examinations, it is to be regretted that more material 

 is not available. From the limited data at hand, it appears that this 

 species, like others of its genus, is almost entirely herbivorous. Like 

 many other geese, it seems to be somewhat of a browser, feeding 

 within limits on those plant species most available and most abun- 

 dant. Thus, the Hudson Land specimen had made 65 per cent of its 

 meal on plant fiber and floral heads of Poa sp. and undetermined 

 grasses, while 16 per cent consisted of Car ex sp. plant fiber and seeds. 

 Fragments of bulblets, rachis, and other vegetative material of the 

 arctic smartweed (Polygonum viviparum) comprised 4 per cent, three 

 species of moss 5 per cent, and undetermined plant fiber 10 per cent. 

 The Clavering Island bird had had a similar meal, with 93 per 

 cent consisting of Carex sp. plant fiber and seeds. Polygonum vivi- 

 parum formed 2 per cent; undetermined plant fiber made up the 

 remaining 5 per cent. Both birds had consumed a trace of animal 

 matter, one a scale insect, and the other an amphipod. 



John Cordeaux (Bent, 1925, p. 202) writes: "When, through the 

 depth of snow on the high wolds, food is not to be got, geese entirely 

 change their habits, loafing about on the coast and sand banks during 

 the day, and in the evening flying and dropping anywhere in the low 

 country where they can get green food ; the snow seldom lies long in 

 coast districts, and there are always places which the winds have 

 left bare, and the ground is more or less uncovered. I have often 

 seen their paddlings and droppings in pasture, corn and turnip fields 

 near the coast." 



Clangula hyemalis (Linnaeus). OLD-SQUAW. 



While the Old-Squaw is generally regarded as a common circum- 

 polar species, occurring as a winter visitor in temperate climates, a 

 single specimen, a female, taken at Musk-ox Fjord, was the only 

 individual of this species observed during the entire voyage. Through- 



