416 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Both field observation and laboratory analysis show that the 

 bird is a predatory forager of more than ordinary skill, and is by 

 no means compelled by nature to obtain its food second-hand from 

 what might appear to be its more successful congeners. This lim- 

 ited study indicates that at least during the nesting season it can 

 subsist quite independent of the gulls that it commonly parasitizes 

 during other periods of the year. Of the 12 stomachs examined, 

 not one showed any evidence that the food had been obtained 

 indirectly. 



It was somewhat surprising to find that the Greenland Collared 

 Lemming (Dicrostonyx groenlandicus) supplied more than half 

 (56.25 per cent) of the food for this series and that it entered into 

 the diet of nine of the 12 birds, forming the sole item of food for 

 four of them. In one case, the remains of no fewer than seven lem- 

 mings were found in the stomach. It was perplexing to find that 

 several of the rodents had been entirely decapitated before being 

 swallowed. L0ppenthin (1932, pp. 85-99) reports that the Long- 

 tailed Jaeger breeds only in great numbers when and where small 

 rodents are numerous. He writes that when the lemmings occur in 

 small numbers, the birds stay in the country, but most of the pairs 

 do not produce a brood, and in very, very bad lemming years, the 

 jaegers disappear completely from their breeding haunts. He 

 further remarks that the jaeger does not breed in southeast Green- 

 land and in Iceland owing to the lack of lemmings there. 



That the species purposely forages for insects is shown by the 

 fact that five of the 12 birds had fed on lepidopterous larvae and 

 four had fed on other insects. The lepidopterous insects averaged 

 24.67 per cent of all food consumed, while the miscellaneous insects, 

 mostly flies (Phaonia frenata and other Diptera), bees and wasps 

 (largely Ephialtinae), comprised an even 2 per cent. The lepidop- 

 terous larvae consisted of several varieties, including one of the cut- 

 worms (Agrotis sp. and Nymphalidae), and represented the principal 

 food item for four of the birds. The unidentifiable remains of a bird 

 comprised 10 per cent of one partly filled stomach, yet it could not be 

 determined whether this represented carrion or a kill. 



As astonishing as it was to find that the Long-tailed Jaeger had 

 become a proficient mouser and an insectivorous feeder, it was still 

 more surprising to find that four of the 12 birds had also become 

 expertly frugivorous, and four others had consumed undetermined or 

 miscellaneous vegetable material in quantity. One bird had made 

 95 per cent of its meal on the fruits of the bearberry (Arctostaphylos 



