1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 417 



alpina), while three others had fed extensively on the fruits of bog 

 bilberry (V actinium uliginosum). 



Catharacta skua Brunnich. NORTHERN SKUA. 



Four individuals of the Northern Skua were observed by the 

 expedition in traveling from Cape Farewell to waters north of 

 Angmagsalik. Others were seen on the Liverpool coast at Rathbone 

 Island, August 6, and in the ice pack out of Davy Sound, 72 N. Lat. 

 They appeared to be very sedentary in habits and seldom evidenced 

 any interest in the ship. These records add materially to the status 

 of this bird in eastern Greenland inasmuch as the only previous 

 known record is from Scoresby Sound that of two females collected 

 by Pedersen in May and June, 1928. The summer of 1936 was very 

 unusual, being marked by ice-free conditions of the east Greenland 

 coast. This may explain the numerous records of the Northern Skua 

 and the total absence of such birds of the pack-ice as the Ivory Gull 

 and Sabine's Gull. 



Larus hyperboreus Gunnerus. GLAUCOUS GULL. 



Four stomachs of the Glaucous Gull collected during the 1936 

 expedition confirm earlier findings (Cottam, 1936, p. 172), and show 

 that fish is its most common fare. Each of the four birds had fed 

 on the pollack (Pollachius virens), and three of them had done 

 so exclusively. One bird, however, had made 98 per cent of its 

 meal on the sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus) and the remainder on the 

 pollack. This majestic bird was a common breeder on Andree 

 Land, the Liverpool coast, and Ymer Island. On August 3, the 

 young were about half grown. In two instances, the nesting sites 

 were the ragged and steep promontories of low plateaus, while at 

 Andree Land they nested against the nearly vertical sides of the 

 mountains bordering the fjords. 



Larus marinus Linnaeus. BLACK-BACKED GULL. 



The Black-backed was found to be the most common gull in Con- 

 ception Bay, Newfoundland, and at Indian Harbor, Labrador. A 

 pair was also noted at Angmagsalik, Greenland. Near Newfoundland 

 and Labrador, a great part of the food of this gull appeared to be bits 

 of fish thrown overboard by fishermen. It was a characteristic feed- 

 ing method of these birds to beat slowly over the shallow water 

 between two narrow points of land, greedily seizing every morsel 

 washed in by the waves. 



