1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 421 



stone, one, fine fishbones, and the others contained little marine 

 crustaceans, especially crabs and Gammaridae." 



Cepphus grylle arcticus 1 (Brehm). NORTHERN BLACK GUILLEMOT. 



If the four well-filled stomachs of the black guillemot available 

 for the present study are indicative of food tendencies, we may con- 

 clude that Crustacea, hard-shelled mollusks, squid, fish, and even 

 the lower invertebrates are equally acceptable and all relished. 

 Austin (1932, p. 139) states that the guillemot feeds entirely on fish, 

 mostly capelin and lance. Hantzsch (1928, pp. 89-90) examined 

 stomachs and found fish in four. One contained crustacean remains 

 of which prawn were unmistakable. The other contained Gammarus 

 sp. and Atylus carinatus and a small snail. 



Of the four stomachs obtained near the Liverpool coast of east 

 Greenland, one contained 18 whole or nearly whole Margarites 

 groenlandicus and opercular fragments and shell remains of perhaps 

 125 additional ones, aggregating 81 per cent of the meal. Gastro- 

 pods of two other species were also noted, but formed only 1 per cent 

 of the content. Remains of seven squid (Loligo sp.) comprised the 

 remaining 18 per cent of the meal, although remains of an unde- 

 termined fish added a trace to the volume. A second stomach was 

 94 per cent filled with amphipods, while the remainder consisted of 

 4 per cent Margarites groenlandicus, 1 per cent of what appeared to 

 be ctenophore and 1 per cent brown algae. The third stomach 

 contained only soft-bodied Crustacea, including more than 225 

 schizopods (Thysanoessa spinifer), which amounted to 99 per cent 

 of the total. The remaining meal consisted largely of amphipods, 

 although squid had been drawn upon to the extent of 5 per cent of 

 the content. 



Fratercula arctica naumanni Norton. LARGE-BILLED PUFFIN. 



Because the Biological Survey has no other record of a stomach 

 examination of the Large-billed Puffin, it is to be regretted that only 

 one half-filled stomach of this bird was submitted for examination. 

 It was collected at Rathbone Island on the Liverpool coast of east 

 Greenland, on August 6. The food consisted of fragments of one 

 polychaete worm, probably a nereid, and six small pollack fish 

 (Pollachius virens). In volume the former comprised 1 per cent and 

 the fish 99 per cent of the stomach content. Another bird was taken 

 on the Greenland coast at 68 N. Lat. but its stomach was empty. 



1 See Peters, 1934, p. 354. 



