424 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



concluding that they fed almost entirely on dwarf willow, saxifrages, 

 and grasses. In the winter, he writes that they use their hoofs in 

 digging for their food. Manniche (1910, pp. 88-89) writes that four 

 musk-oxen, killed on October 31, 1906, had their stomachs filled 

 with fine grass, and that an old bull shot August 26, 1907, "contained 

 hardly anything but grass." Others killed later contained mostly 

 grass and a little Salix sp. Preble (1908, p. 154) reports that the 

 stomach of a large bull killed at the head of Dease River on August 7 

 was filled with willow twigs and leaves. 



Thalarctos maritimus eogroenlandicus (Knottnerus-Meyer). 

 EAST GREENLAND POLAR BEAR. 



Two East Greenland Polar Bears were taken on the 1936 expedi- 

 tion. Their stomachs were nearly empty and contained in each case 

 only a trace of fish and a small amount of fatty material. Frag- 

 mentary remains of Gadidae were recognized in one stomach. 



From published accounts, it seems that the bulk of the food of the 

 polar bear consists of seals. Soper (1928, p. 31) reports that it also 

 catches young walruses and feeds infrequently on lemmings and 

 vegetable matter. Brown (1868, p. 344) writes that although its 

 principal food consists of seals, "it is somewhat omnivorous in its 

 diet, and will often clear an islet of eider-duck eggs in the course of a 

 few hours." During the sealing season, he reports, the bear is a 

 constant attendant on the sealer for the sake of carcasses. He 

 further writes that he has seen it feeding on different species of dead 

 whales which are found floating. 



Manniche (1910, p. 66) likewise points out that in addition to the 

 bear's feeding on seals, its excellent smelling sense leads it to any 

 large carcass upon which it readily feeds. He also states that it feeds 

 on "lower marine animals which it obtains near a crack in the ice 

 and along the seashore." Manniche further reports that he has 

 found the remains of seals and crabs in the bear's stomach. Vegetable 

 foods apparently are of little value to it. 



Alopex lagopus ungava (Merriam). LABRADOR ARCTIC Fox. 



A single specimen of the arctic fox was obtained by Captain 

 Bartlett on August 6, 1935, near Bushnous Island, Melville Bay. 

 Its stomach contents confirm the conclusion that this species is truly 

 a predator in the northland. The animal had recently fed on a Dove- 

 kie (Alle alle), which comprised the sole stomach item. 



