414 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



and adults, 5.5 per cent; Hymenoptera, 2 per cent; Coleoptera, 1 per 

 cent; undetermined insects, 3.5 per cent; leafy fragments of Dryas sp., 

 4.5 per cent; algae, 2 per cent; undetermined plant debris, 17.5 

 per cent. 



Pisobia minutilla (Vieillot). LEAST SANDPIPER. 



Only one partly filled stomach of the Least Sandpiper was avail- 

 able, obtained at Indian Harbor, Labrador, early in July. Food items 

 in their relative proportions were as follows: fragments of midges 

 (Chironomus sp.) and undetermined Diptera, 45 per cent; fragments 

 of three ground beetles (Carabidae), 40 per cent; fragments of other 

 Coleoptera, 5 per cent; undetermined plant fiber, 10 per cent. 



The stomach was much less than half full and the small bits of 

 food items were finely comminuted. 



Lobipes lobatus (Linnaeus). NORTHERN PHALAROPE. 



The single stomach of a Northern Phalarope collected July 8, at a 

 tidal pool near Indian Harbor, Labrador, where it was found nesting, 

 was too nearly empty to give more than a suggestion of the bird's 

 normal food tendencies. The following items were recorded from 

 laboratory analysis: fragments of undetermined Hymenoptera, 3 per 

 cent; fragments of many Pogonomyia sp. (Diptera) pupae cases, 77 

 per cent; fragments of five Dytiscidae, 10 per cent; undetermined 

 plant fiber, 10 per cent. This species was frequently seen migrat- 

 ing at sea from Newfoundland to Cape Cod during the latter part 

 of August. 



Stercorarius pomarinus (Temminck). POMARINE JAEGER. 



There is much in common in the food of the jaegers and a number 

 of the gulls that feed in similar situations. To some degree, the 

 jaegers are parasitic in robbing the gulls of their food; consequently, 

 many of the food items are of the same species. Fishes are commonly 

 consumed and seem to be taken in proportion to their availability. 

 Unfortunately, only a single Pomarine Jaeger was collected, and that 

 was taken July 27, at Davy Sound, northeast Greenland, while the 

 bird was pursuing Kittiwakes. The stomach contained only the 

 remains of three small pollack fish (Pollachius virens). 



This is the most dashing of the jaegers, showing marvelous agility 

 on the wing and is, by far, the most aggressive and persistent in its 

 attacks upon other birds. In east Greenland, from all evidence, it is 

 outnumbered by the Long-tailed Jaeger by at least ten to one. A 



