406 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



indebted to Mr. Rudyerd Boulton, Curator of Birds in Field Museum, 

 for aid in studying the birds, as well as to Captain Bartlett, his crew, 

 and the students who accompanied the expedition for assistance in 

 collecting. 



BIRDS 



Puffinus griseus (Gmelin). SOOTY SHEARWATER. 1 



Three Sooty Shearwaters were observed on June 25, a few miles 

 south of the Bay of Fundy. At the halfway mark between Labrador 

 and Greenland a few other individuals were seen. A large dark 

 shearwater, probably of this species, was also noted off the Greenland 

 coast about 66 N. Lat., July 20. Unfortunately, no collections of 

 this or of the Greater Shearwater were made. 



Puffinus gravis (O'Reilly). GREATER SHEARWATER. 



Greater Shearwaters were first observed when the expedition 

 crossed the Bay of Fundy, but they did not occur in abundance 

 until Cape Race, Newfoundland, was reached on June 30. Their 

 largest concentration was off the Funk Islands, July 5, where flocks 

 of 50 to 100 in number were common and the total population prob- 

 ably exceeded 2,000. In these waters small crustaceans commonly 

 called "whale bait" were plentiful and undoubtedly served as the 

 attraction for such large numbers. Field observation seemed to sup- 

 port this conclusion. 



While crossing from Indian Harbor, Labrador, to Cape Farewell, 

 Greenland, and up the coast to 62 N. Lat., this shearwater was 

 occasionally seen, but quickly disappeared in an area of a thin ice- 

 pack. On the return trip, August 12, when the ship was outside 

 Angmagsalik, these birds once more appeared and were somewhat 

 common down the coast. 



Fulmarus glacialis glacialis (Linnaeus). ATLANTIC FULMAR. 



Fulmars first appeared as the ship approached the Funk Islands 

 and the following day they were very numerous when the first ice- 

 bergs were reached. Their marked preference for colder water shows 

 a definite correlation with their southern distribution. "Whale bait" 

 crustaceans being abundant here, it seemed to form an important 

 food item. The birds were very cannibalistic, immediately falling 

 upon their own kind or upon other birds when found wounded. This 

 trait was especially apparent along the ice-pack in Greenland, where 



1 Unless otherwise noted, nomenclature and sequence of species conform 

 with the A. 0. U. Checklist, 1931. 



