1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 423 



Oenanthe oenanthe leucorhoa (Gmelin). GREENLAND 

 WHEATEAR. 



The Greenland Wheatear was particularly abundant about ponds 

 in the valleys back of Angmagsalik, but no stomach collections 

 were made. 

 Anthus spinoletta rubescens (Tunstall). AMERICAN PIPIT. 



The American Pipit is an abundant species at Indian Harbor, 

 Labrador; however, no stomach specimens were collected. 



Anthus pratensis (Linnaeus). EUROPEAN MEADOW PIPIT. 



A specimen of the meadow pipit, rare in Greenland, was taken 

 at Angmagsalik, but unfortunately its stomach was not saved for 

 laboratory analysis. 

 Calcarius lapponicus lapponicus (Linnaeus). LAPLAND 



LONGSPUR. 



Three longspurs were collected at Angmagsalik, and, like the 

 other passerine birds of this region, they were molting heavily. Food 

 habit studies of the species were not made. 



Plectrophenax nivalis nivalis (Linnaeus). EASTERN SNOW 

 BUNTING. 



Some half dozen snow buntings were observed about a rock slide 

 at Hudson Land. They are also fairly common at Angmagsalik. 

 Two stomachs were available for laboratory analysis. Both birds 

 were taken at Hudson Land, Musk-ox Fjord, Greenland, on July 31, 

 1936, and both had gorged themselves on the seeds of Carex sp. 

 One bird had also the fragmentary remains of an undetermined bug, 

 a beetle, and a bee. 



MAMMALS 

 Ovibos moschatus wardi Lydekker. GREENLAND MUSK-OX. 



Because of the comparative rarity of the musk-ox, it is unfor- 

 tunate that the stomach of the sole specimen obtained, a calf taken 

 at Musk-ox Fjord, northeast Greenland, was nearly empty, and the 

 small amount of food present was so finely comminuted as to make 

 satisfactory determination impossible. It appeared that Salix 

 glauca represented the principal food item. MacFarlane (1905, 

 p. 689) confirms the observations of Greely (1886, pp. 104-105) on 

 the feeding habits of the Musk-ox. Greely examined a number of 

 stomachs of these animals and made careful observation in the field 



