1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 419 



Uria aalge aalge (Pontoppidan). ATLANTIC MURRE. 



The Atlantic Murre was fairly common about Funk Island, New- 

 foundland; however, no specimens were collected. 



Uria lomvia lomvia (Linnaeus). BRDNNICH'S MURRE. 



All the murres taken on the Greenland coast were Briinnich's. 

 They were first encountered in abundance at about 68 N. Lat. On 

 Rathbone Island, Liverpool coast, they were found nesting by the 

 thousands with a few Dovekies among them. Hanson noted a few 

 young swimming with their parents August 8, on the Blossville coast. 



In all, 19 birds were collected (mostly at 68 20' N. Lat. and 25 

 W. Long.) and their alimentary tracts were preserved for subsequent 

 laboratory analysis. Unfortunately, however, only nine of these 

 were sufficiently filled to be used in the tabulation of food percent- 

 ages. With members of this family, digestion is exceedingly rapid, 

 and particularly is this true when the birds feed, as this species does, 

 to such a large extent upon soft-bodied Crustacea; consequently, 

 among a series, a fair proportion of empty stomachs may be expected. 



From the data obtained through this analysis, it is apparent that 

 the murre subsists on items of but few species. It is obviously 

 content to make its entire meal on a single species of sea life. Most 

 published reports that mention the food of the bird seem to stress 

 its piscivorous tendencies. This is not supported by our data as only 

 one of the nine stomachs here considered contained fish, and, in this 

 case, the stomach was much less than a fourth full. Although only 

 sculpin (Cottidae), fish bones, and otoliths were in evidence in this 

 holdover meal, it is not improbable that soft-bodied Crustacea, 

 which quickly digest and become unrecognizable, had formed a 

 generous proportion of the menu. Undoubtedly, the relative degree 

 of availability of the various forms of marine life has much to do with 

 the selection made. 



Of the eight remaining birds, four had fed exclusively upon a 

 single species of schizopod (Thysanoessa spinifer), while the remaining 

 four had drawn upon this same soft-bodied crustacean to the extent 

 of 96 to 99 per cent of the respective meals. More than 500 of these 

 creatures were ingested at a single meal. A large amphipod (Them- 

 isto sp.) formed 4 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, of two 

 stomachs, while Gammarus sp. comprised 2 per cent of another. A 

 squid, amounting to 4 per cent of the food of one meal, was the only 

 other item consumed by these birds. One of the stomachs, which 

 was practically empty, contained a leg fragment of a crab. 



