418 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Rissa tridactyla tridactyla (Linnaeus). ATLANTIC KITTIWAKE. 



Along the Greenland coast the Kittiwake is the most abundant 

 offshore gull. Only immatures were observed at sea during the 

 summer as the adults remain about the breeding rocks. A few were 

 found nesting on Rathbone Island, Liverpool coast. 



Bernard Hantzsch (1928, p. 123) found that the food of Atlantic 

 Kittiwakes is extremely variable. "At times," he writes, "they 

 follow the immeasurable shoals of capelin (Mallotus uillosus); at 

 other times, they are content with crustaceans and all other little 

 creatures of the sea." Two stomachs, examined and reported by 

 Hantzsch, contained crabs. 



Forbush (1925, p. 64) found that the bird feeds largely on "smaller 

 fishes of the sea, on crustaceans, mollusks, and other marine animals, 

 and like other gulls, it is more or less of a scavenger." Six stomachs 

 taken on the 1936 Bartlett Expedition confirmed the reports that it 

 feeds on a wide variety of pelagic forms. Fish represented the 

 dominant item of food, occurring in all stomachs collected, and 

 constituting the entire content of three of them. Of the stomach 

 contents of the six birds, pollacks (Pollachius virens) amounted to 

 37.83 per cent, ling ( Urophycis sp.) formed 15 per cent, and unde- 

 termined fish made up an additional 17.67 per cent. Squid was 

 drawn upon to the extent of 16.83 per cent, and in two of the meals 

 represented the dominant items. Beaks of 25 individuals were found 

 in a single stomach. Soft-bodied Crustacea, mostly amphipods 

 (including Gammaracanthus loricatus) and schizopods (Thysanoessa 

 spinifer), aggregated 8 per cent of the total, while polychaete worms 

 entered into three of the meals and averaged 4 per cent of the entire 

 consumption. Plant drift, probably taken accidentally, supplied 

 the remaining fraction of a per cent. 



Sterna paradisaea Brunnich. ARCTIC TERN. 



Only three stomachs of the Arctic Tern, one each from Hudson 

 Land, Ymer Island, and the open sea at about 69 N. Lat. near 

 south Greenland coast, were available for study. Unfortunately, 

 each of these was less than half full; consequently, the food items 

 recorded can be considered as only suggestive of normal food tend- 

 encies. Fish occurred merely as a trace in one stomach and amounted 

 to but 1 per cent of the food content of another. All the remaining 

 food material consisted of soft-bodied Crustacea, largely schizopods 

 (Thysanoessa sp.) and undetermined amphipods. One of the birds 

 had fed exclusively on schizopods. 



