1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 425 



From Soper's (1928, p. 35) extended studies on Baffin Island, he 

 concluded that the fox lives largely on lemmings throughout the 

 year. He further concluded that ptarmigan may constitute a part 

 of the diet, and rarely the arctic hare, especially the young. During 

 March and April, he says, the foxes capture many of the helpless 

 young of the ringed seal in their snow dens on the ice. Preble (1902, 

 p. 62), found the bones and feathers of various birds, principally 

 ptarmigan, scattered about the entrance of an inhabited burrow. 



Alopex groenlandicus (Bechstein). GREENLAND ARCTIC Fox. 

 A den of the Greenland Arctic Fox was visited at Ymer Island, 

 northeast Greenland, on August 3, 1936. Remains of several col- 

 lared lemmings (Dicrostonyx) and an undetermined gull were noted. 



Lepus arcticus groenlandicus Rhoads. GREENLAND HARE. 



Two well-filled stomachs of the Greenland Hare, taken the first 

 week of August at North Fjord, northeast Greenland, indicate that 

 even though the same foods were eaten by both rabbits, a fairly wide 

 variety of succulent herbs are acceptable as articles of their diet. 

 Car ex sp., Calamagrostis sp., and Potentilla sp. occurred as food for 

 both hares and averaged 47.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 17.5 per 

 cent respectively of the total. Pedicularis sp. and an undetermined 

 grass (Poaceae) each occurred as a part of one meal, and each repre- 

 sented 10 per cent of the total in that particular stomach. Plant 

 fiber of Draba sp. formed but a trace of one meal. Rhoads (1897, 

 p. 359) comments that this hare seeks the sides of hills where the 

 wind prevents the snow from lodging deeply, and where, even in 

 winter, it can procure for food the berries of the Alpine arbutus, the 

 bark of some dwarf willows, or evergreen leaves of the Labrador 

 tea (Ledum). 



Preble (1908, p. 199) found that arctic hares of the Athabaska- 

 Mackenzie region had become so abundant in 1903 that they had 

 eaten even dense thickets of willows and other shrubs almost to the 

 ground. In places, the Banksian pines appeared to furnish their 

 principal food. 



Cystophora cristata (Erxleben). HOODED SEAL. 



Only a single stomach was available for study and it was nearly 

 empty. The only food items recognizable were the remains of 

 fragmentary beaks of a few cephalopods. 



