1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 409 



their flying so much easier that they were constantly present, while 

 in calm weather they appeared to be totally absent. They occurred 

 sparsely on the Labrador coast and a few were seen outside Indian 

 Harbor on July 12. When the ship returned to Newfoundland on 

 August 12, this species again became common about a hundred 

 miles offshore. No specimens were secured for studies of food 

 habits. 



Moris bassana (Linnaeus). GANNET. 



During both voyages past Cape Race, Newfoundland, about a 

 dozen individuals of this species were noted. They were also observed 

 in Conception Bay, Newfoundland, and off the Funk Islands, where 

 they were present in small numbers. No collections were made. 



Phalacrocorax carbo carbo (Linnaeus). EUROPEAN CORMORANT. 



The stomach and gullet of the only cormorant examined was 

 taken June 28, 1931, by Capt. Bartlett, at Bjortonga, Brede Bugt, 

 Iceland, on a previous expedition. Like others of its tribe, this bird 

 apparently had fed on the most easily obtainable fish. Ninety-six 

 per cent of its meal consisted of six of the common arctic sculpin 

 (Myoxocephalus sp.). A pair of spider crabs (Hyas araneus) com- 

 prised the other 4 per cent, although fragments of a polychaete worm, 

 two thais shells (Thais sp.), and one limpet (Acmaea sp.) were also 

 present but formed only a trace each of the total stomach contents 

 of the bird. 



Cygnus columbianus (Ord). WHISTLING SWAN. 



The junior author examined a skin of the Whistling Swan at 

 Angmagsalik, Greenland, that was taken from a flock of four near 

 the settlement in May, 1935. We are unaware of other specimens of 

 this bird from east Greenland. 



Branta leucopsis (Bechstein). BARNACLE GOOSE. 



Fifteen Barnacle Geese were observed at Musk-ox Fjord, Hudson 

 Land, Greenland. They were the only ones seen, but at Ymer 

 Island a large flock was heard honking far away in the fog. These 

 geese are known to nest near a fresh-water lake a few miles back 

 from the coast of this island. No specimens were obtained on this 

 expedition although one was taken on a previous Bartlett Expedition 

 to north Greenland and its stomach contents analyzed (Cottam, 

 1936, p. 167). 



