412 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Lagopus mutus captus was collected on Ymer Island, and it had made 

 88 per cent of its meal of twigs and leaves of Salix and 12 per cent 

 of Carex sp. 



Both subspecies fed exclusively on vegetable material, including 

 twigs, leaves, bulblets, and fruits. From this small series, it seems 

 that when a bird finds an acceptable food, the entire meal may be 

 made from it. While all the stomachs were full, material of only 

 two, or at most three, species per bird were found. 



Lagopus mutus rupestris (Gmelin). HUDSON BAY ROCK 

 PTARMIGAN. 



The six ptarmigan from Angmagsalik had fed predominantly on 

 fruit of crowberry (Empetrum nigrum) and none had obtained any 

 willow. A summary average of the six stomachs follows: fruit debris 

 of Empetrum nigrum, 81.5 per cent; bulblets and vegetable debris 

 of Polygonum viviparum, 18 per cent; seeds and plant fiber of Carex 

 sp., 17 per cent; fruit debris of Vaccinium vitis-idaea, 33 per cent; 

 seeds of Pedicularis sp., trace; undetermined vegetable debris, trace. 



One bird had consumed more than 1,300 fruits of the crowberry, 

 while two others had each taken more than 1,000 of these fruits. One 

 of the Angmagsalik birds had also consumed more than 500 bulblets 

 of the arctic smartweed (Polygonum viviparum). 



On a lowland area near Angmagsalik harbor, on August 11, 

 Hanson discovered a flock of 25 ptarmigan feeding on berries. 

 Previous to this time, they had been reported up in the mountains 

 but apparently had come down to partake of the abundant food. 

 Though they were still mainly in summer plumage, the under parts 

 had already whitened considerably. The large majority were im- 

 mature; of eight birds collected only one was an adult. 



Charadrius hiaticula psammodroma Salomonsen. 1 GREENLAND 

 RINGED PLOVER. 



The ringed plover was an abundant nesting bird on a long 

 graveled slope at Musk-ox Fjord, Hudson Land. On July 31, a 

 young bird nearly fully feathered was collected. Feigning injury 

 is as characteristic of this species as it is of killdeers. 



Five adult plover stomachs provide convincing evidence that 

 this species, like its American relatives, is insectivorous in its food 

 tendencies. Lepidopterous larvae, mostly Vanessidae, supplied 

 more than four-fifths (82.8 per cent) of the entire food consumed. 



1 See Peters, 1934, p. 247. 



