408 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



total and consisted entirely of non-commercial species. Gadids, 

 including pollacks (Pollachius wrens), lings ( Urophycis sp.), and 

 another species that may have been a scombrid, were noted in one or 

 more stomachs, although fish of some species formed a part of each 

 of the twelve meals. 



Polychaete worms, probably nereids, which formed one-fifth of 

 the food consumed, are obviously sought after, as these entered into 

 the diet of 10 of the 12 birds examined and formed 60 per cent of the 

 meal of two of them. No fewer than 91 pairs of the characteristically 

 serrate mandibles were taken from a single stomach. 



Cephalopods, apparently squids, were next in order of importance 

 and entered into the bill-of-fare of nine of the birds, amounting to 

 17.17 per cent of the total, and forming more than one-half the meal 

 of one. In this case, beaks of 10 small squid were noted. Fragments 

 of molluscan egg-cases were also found in three stomachs. 



Varying amounts of soft-bodied crustaceans in the form of iso- 

 pods, amphipods, schizopods, and cumaceans, are consumed. In one 

 form or another, they were obtained by eight of the 12 birds; yet, 

 in the aggregate, they comprised only 5.08 per cent of the total food 

 content. One bird, however, had drawn more than a third of its 

 meal from these small inconspicuous creatures. Because such 

 delicate and readily digested matter passes so quickly through the 

 stomach, it is probable that their importance as food is much greater 

 than the above small percentage would indicate. 



A large number of miscellaneous items are usually consumed by 

 such omnivorous feeders. This, undoubtedly, would be found to be 

 the case if a larger and more representative series of birds was 

 collected. One of the birds here considered had made 6 per cent of 

 its meal on a sand dollar. 



Vegetable material consumed was largely unidentifiable, as it 

 consisted mainly of drifting wood-pulp, although a limited amount of 

 brown algae (mostly Ascophyllum nodosum), smartweed (Polygonum 

 viviparum), and cinquefoil (Potentilla sp.) were identified. It is 

 possible that all of this was taken accidentally. 



Numerous parasitic nematode worms were noted in all but two 

 of the gullets or stomachs. 



Oceanites oceanicus (Kuhl). WILSON'S PETREL. 



Wilson's Petrels were first observed in Long Island Sound 

 on June 24, and were extremely abundant off the Bay of Fundy on 

 June 26. Here the rough water and strong winds seemed to make 



