420 FIELD MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY ZOOLOGY, VOL. XX 



Expressing the food content in percentages, it is found that fish 

 formed slightly in excess of 11 per cent, while schizopods comprised 

 nearly 88 per cent of the diet, and the two species of amphipods and 

 the squid together represented only a little more than 1 per cent. 

 With the exception of the one partially filled stomach containing fish 

 fragments, these results are very similar to those obtained from 

 previous Bartlett expeditions and reported upon by Cottam (1936, 

 pp. 174-175), when the food was found to consist primarily of soft- 

 bodied Crustacea, with fish forming only slightly more than 1 per 

 cent of the content. 



Bent (1919, p. 194) writes that the food of Briinnich's Murre 

 consists mainly of small fish, Crustacea, and mollusks, which it 

 obtains at sea, both on the surface and by diving. 



Alle alle (Linnaeus). DOVEKIE. 



Dovekies were first noted at 63 20' N. Lat., but they did not 

 become common until about one hundred miles south of Scoresby 

 Sound. While crossing the sound in the evening, thousands of these 

 "Little Auks" were seen feeding on the water and the air was filled 

 with the constant murmur of their chirpings. The waters here were 

 almost clouded from the abundant crustaceans and droppings from 

 the birds. That these waters were rich with crustaceans was well 

 attested by the presence of three large whales, probably the Green- 

 land Right Whale. Nearly all the birds shot had their mouths and 

 throats crammed with crustaceans to carry to their nests. On the 

 Liverpool coast large flocks of Dovekies continually passed back and 

 forth over the mountains to their nests at such an altitude as to be 

 almost invisible. 



Of six stomachs collected in July and August off the south and 

 east Greenland coast, only four contained food. The results here 

 obtained confirm the belief that this species shares the well-known 

 propensity of many northern pelagic birds of feeding extensively on 

 soft-bodied crustaceans. All but one bird had fed exclusively on 

 amphipods, schizopods, shrimp, and other soft-bodied crustaceans, 

 and it had drawn 93 per cent of its meal from this source. The 

 remaining 7 per cent included a sculpin (Cottidae). The type of 

 soft-bodied crustacean ingested is undoubtedly determined by the 

 degree of availability of the various species. 



Bernhard Hantzsch (1928, p. 92) found that of six birds taken 

 off the coast of northern Labrador, "one contained a little gray 



