1938 FOOD HABITS COTTAM AND HANSON 413 



Spiders of several species had been taken by all of the birds and in 

 the aggregate comprised 10.2 per cent of the total. One bird had 

 drawn upon these creatures to the extent of 43 per cent of its meal. 

 The remaining 7 per cent of the diet was made up of wasps and bees, 

 insects that are predominantly parasitic upon other insects, and, 

 consequently, are considered to be beneficial. Other groups of insects 

 comprised only a trace of the stomach contents and only a trace of 

 vegetable matter had been consumed. 



Charadrius semipalmatus Bonaparte. SEMIPALMATED PLOVER. 



Perhaps no better means of obtaining a cross section of the 

 relative abundance of the insect and other small animal life could be 

 found than through an examination of the alimentary content of a 

 few shore birds frequenting a given territory. The following shows 

 the wide variety of life occurring near a tidal pool, as shown by the 

 stomach contents of one of a nesting pair of Semipalmated Plover, 

 taken July 8, at Indian Harbor, Labrador: 42 larvae of Cidaria sp. 

 (Geometridae) and fragments of many others, 35 per cent; 1 larva of 

 Colias sp., 4 per cent; 1 larva of an undetermined Noctuidae, 4 per 

 cent; 1 other undetermined lepidopterous larva, 7 per cent; 5 Cur- 

 tonotus sp., 7 per cent; fragments of two Cryobius mandibularis, 4 per 

 cent; 7 Elateridae, 8 per cent; fragments of other Coleoptera, 6 

 per cent; fragments of two or more species of spiders, 5 per cent; 

 fragments of seven Camponotus sp. and other Formicidae, 6 per cent; 

 fragments of undetermined Hymenoptera, 2 per cent; fragments of 

 two Acalypta sp., 1 per cent; fragments of Pachyrrhina sp., 3 per 

 cent; fragments of one Sciara sp., 1 per cent; fragments of unde- 

 termined Diptera, 1 per cent; fragments of seven Littorina sp., 5 per 

 cent; seed fragments of Carex sp., 1 per cent. 



Obviously, the stomach was gorged. 



Arenaria interpres interpres (Linnaeus). EUROPEAN TURNSTONE. 



Two stomachs from a pair of European Turnstones, taken on 

 Hudson Land, July 31, show results that confirm previous studies 

 (Cottam, 1936, p. 170 and L0ppenthin, 1932, p. 55) of birds collected 

 in this same general area. Insect life in particular seems to be taken 

 in approximate proportion to availability. The 1936 birds had both 

 fed extensively on lepidopterous larvae, which made up more than 

 half their meals. The average of the two stomachs was as follows: 

 lepidopterous larvae, including Nymphalidae and Noctuidae, 56.5 per 

 cent; spiders of two or more species, 7.5 per cent; dipterous larvae 



